I think it's an opportunity. I have been working for a few years on the idea of remote working. An idée fixe of mine is move conferences online. I see the COVID stuff as a way to accelerate a societal shift, more for the sake of climate change. 

"A greenspace online". A lot of people sees the social part of the Internet as a heap of hate, fakes, horrible comments. Facebook has a lot of responsibility here, as does YouTube. 

I don't think we can do away with Facebook. But I do think that it is important to preserve some greenspace online. We now see people organizing Zoom calls with their friends.

Are these greenspaces "hyperlocal" and ephemeral 

"personal learning networks" – a term I learned in the Twitter conversation on online learning and education. 

Twitter literacy 

Facebook groups are optimized for engagement, but not for large scale conversation. Things get lost. 

"We are all doing it anyway now, let's maintain that now this greenspace online, these convivial spaces."

Institute for the Future is running a space on online collaboration. They were the first people to do online conferencing (Jacques Vallée, the head of Engelbart's communication team). They are running podcasts now. 

Organizing a large conference could be a business. 

* Bringing orgs to remote work. Community managers, typically excluded from the corporate world, are key. 
* Slack is good at coordination, but not at accumulating/organizing knowledge. For that you need a forum. 

Coordinating between large organizations and this patchwork of initiatives that are popping up in response to COVID.

And a kind of syndicate connecting these initiatives to each other. 
* Can we even do this? Edgeryders struggles to make a value proposition, and so does everyone else.
* Right now, people are super focused on just doing the job. I would suggest to compile a list of things at are happening, putting it online, and then inviting everyone to meet others. 
* "Look, we can get together and help each other!" This is how you can set one up in your neighborhood. 

"It is the first time that everyone on Earth is thinking about the same thing. Additionally, everyone is closer to each other because everyone is online."

The start of a network is something like we are doing here: hey, it's people! I see their faces! Zoom is great in this. And in general, different people are comfortable with different media. So, a mix of media is needed, and a good thing (note from me: though then curation becomes even more important). 

This is a historical transition. I (HR) predict that, at the end, medical/scientific work will be enormously accelerated by this connectivity. 

AC: but does the commercial web not get in the way? 

HR: a fundamental design principle of the WELL was that it was meant to pay for itself, but not beholden to turning a profit for investors. 

JC: The WELL ran on UNIX. We could give people UNIX computing; this attracted good programmers that then made the WELL iself, for example its chat functionality is (still) user base. 

HR: Maybe that Internet will come back!

AC: Maybe we should all move over to the Indieweb. 

JC: Historically, a watershed moment was the dotcom bust, when Google, newly public, needed a revenue stream, and they hit on surveillance of consumers. Another one is the advent of phones. Also, as the Net became more accessible, the original group of hackers got diluted ("there are no dumb people online", one of my slides in the 90s. no longer is true).

HR: We are two years into a backlash against big tech. There is again some space for doing good online. We can take back the Internet!



I have been online since 1992 – hell, I practically *lived* online most of these 30 years. What drew me to the Internet was not the presence of shiny, easy-to-use, free services – they were not there in the early days. On the contrary, you had to put in time and money if you wanted to, as we said then, "connect to the Internet". 

But the reward was high. *Whatever your tribe, you would find it*. Whether you cared about particle physics, detective stories or board games, countless like-minded people were waiting for you "out there". And yes, you would occasionally encounter conflict and rants, but they would be overwhelmed by the sense of being welcome, of belonging. For me – a bookish, weird kid from an Italian small town, who was into weird music, it was a lifeline. 

But, of course, it was not about me. The sense of community was pervasive, generalized. 

> My direct observations of online behaviour around the world over the past ten years have led me to conclude that whenever computer-mediated communications technology becomes available to people anywhere, they inevitably build virtual communities with it, just as microorganisms inevitably create colonies.

These words were written by @howard_rheingold in 1994, in a seminal book called *[The Virtual Community](https://books.google.be/books?id=fr8bdUDisqAC&printsec=frontcover&dq=rheingold+virtual+community&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwi0_MaQsa7oAhXHMewKHffIBlAQ6AEIJzAA#v=onepage&q=rheingold%20virtual%20community&f=false)*. In the intervening years, however, some of that sense of community has been lost. Some American computer networks had been offering commercial services since the late 1980s; in 1992, US Congress pass a law that allowed the academic NSFNET, to connect to those commercial networks, and the latter to use NSFNET as their infrastructural backbone. Seven years later, the dotcom boom showed everyone the money-making potential of the Internet. The original "digital settlers" described by Howard's book were still out there, but increasingly drowned out by corporate types. The idea itself of virtual community gave way to that of social networking service (Facebook and similar). 