* Framing! The Covenant is undergoing a turbulent time: available intelligence predicts multiple crises coming, and we must endure. You have been appointed as the crisis task force of the Covenant, under the auspices of both its secular authorities, the Distrikt Council and its religious leadership, the Officium Summae Auctoritatis. I am myself a monk, we have a tradition of Church members advising secular authority. can be addressed as brother. I am here as a technical adviser, to help you make decisions. 

My first advice to you is: make sure you download your councillor's kit. Here it is: https://bit.ly/covenant-crisis-kit. It contains two things: an information pack about our Distrikt and Witness in general, and a set of possible ways that we could respond to impending crises. Such candidate solutions are represented as cards, like cards in a game. Some of these solutions are regenerative: they have permanent effects. Others are one-time: they produce effects only when first adopted.  It is important to remember that these solutions might look different from what you are used to, especially if you are not yourself from The Covenant. This is because they have been developed by your predecessors in former crises, and are optimized to make the most of the specific characteristics of our society. In a moment, we will be taking five minutes for each of us, individually, to go through the cards. My brothers and sisters who designed them have been at times rather suggestive rather than explicit, so think about what they might mean in the context of the Covenant's dual economy and peaceful, if rather hierarchical, society.  

I also have an apology for you, and a request. The apology is because this council is too large, and its tasks too urgent, to do the traditional round of table and introduce yourselves. The request, as a way to allow your fellow councillors to get to know you at least a little bit, is for you to nevertheless introduce yourselves via the chat. 

And this brings me to a question I have for all of you. According to my briefing, some of you are not native to The Covenant/The Assembly/Hygge, and might be unfamiliar with our ways here. Would anyone here like a 5-minute refresher on main facts about the Distrikt? 





Report back to the plenary
